# Wikimarks

In @dietz2022 we describe a methodology and tool-set for deriving information
retrieval benchmarks for a variety of tasks from Wikipedia. We call these
benchmarks *Wikimarks*. This work is an extension of the infrastructure
developed while organizing the [Complex Answer Retrieval track][trec-car] at
[NIST TREC][trec] and examines several using Wikipedia to assess several tasks
not previously considered in the TREC-CAR context.

We believe that Wikimarks can serve to complement traditional information
retrieval benchmarks as they build upon a readily-available source of
real-world text content. Furthermore, Wikipedia articles feature exhibit
considerable machine-readable structure in the form of page structure,
hyperlink structure, and complementary data sources such as [Wikidata][].

## Tasks

The paper describes Wikimarks for four information retrieval tasks:

* *passage retrieval*: retrieval of relevant text passages for a keyword query
* *entity retrieval*: retrieval of relevant *entities* (defined to be Wikipedia pages) for a keyword query
* *query-specific clustering*: sub-topic clustering of passages for a keyword query
* *query-specific entity-linking*: annotation of query-relevant entity links in relevant passages

## Tools

Our pipeline for generating Wikimarks can, along with usage instructions, be
found in the [`TREMA-UNH/trec-car-release`][trec-car-release] project. See the
`README` for further details.

This pipeline builds upon the tools provided by the
[`trec-car-create`][trec-car-create] package, which provides utilities for
extracting, inspecting, filtering, and generating benchmarks from Wikipedia
dumps.

## Provided Conversions

Along with the methodology and tools, we provide the raw products of our
article conversion pipeline run on the English, Simple English, and Japanese
Wikipedia dumps from 1 January 2022. These `unprocessedAll` datasets include
all pages of each Wiki in machine-readable JSONL and CBOR formats.

* `enwiki`: [download](http://trec-car.cs.unh.edu/wikimarks/datareleases/wikimarks-20220101/wiki2022-simple-collectionCbor.tar.xz)

## Provided Benchmarks

In addition to the raw conversions described above, we also provide several
Wikimarks extracted from these conversions:

* the `benchmarks` dataset provides Wikimarks for passage retrieval, entity
  retrieval, query-specific clustering, and entity linking, extracted from the
  page subsets described in Section TODO of the paper.

* the `unprocessedAllButBenchmark` dataset provides all pages except for the
  set included in `benchmarks` and is intended to be used for training of
  systems to be evaluated using `benchmarks`

* the `paragraphCorpus` dataset is a corpus of paragraphs from articles to
  be used for passage retrieval evaluation.

## License

The conversions and benchmarks described above are licensed under the [Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License][cc-sa].


[trec-car]: http://trec-car.cs.unh.edu/ 
[trec]: https://trec.nist.gov/
[Wikidata]: https://wikidata.org/
[cc-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
[trec-car-release]: https://github.com/TREMA-UNH/trec-car-release
[trec-car-create]: https://github.com/TREMA-UNH/trec-car-create
[download]: http://trec-car.cs.unh.edu/wikimarks/datareleases/wikimarks-20220101/
